
The Grand Theft Auto III mission script compiler
and decompiler is built into the mission builder.

The Grand Theft Auto III mission script was decoded
by people on http://www.gtaforums.com and people on
IRC in an open debate.

I started decoding the mission script using a
hexadecimal editor in a "trial and error" manner.
I posted my findings on http://www.gtaforums.com in
the "my work in cracking the mission script..." post.
I found that the mission script was made up of 4
segments, the first segments with zeros, the second
segment with object definitions, the third with mission
pointers and the 4th had most of the the mission script
code. I also posted that the mission script was probably
compiled from a line based text source made up by what
I defined at that time as "command codes" and parameters.

Mattj posted his findings later. This post was
more detailed and accurate than mine. I continued
working and posted my finding in my first posted thread.
The work continued in this very simple trial and error
manner and the "official" knowledge about the mission
script grew bigger as more people joined in.

Later, more skilled people joined and disassemblers was
used. The decoding got very accurate at this point and
gequinn started working on a decompiler for the mission
script. The work was moved to a lesser open debate on
IRC to make it "cleaner" and more efficient. I didn't
feel like spending all day on IRC and I couldn't keep up
with those people that were much more skilled than me,
so I stopped working on decoding the mission script at
that time. At some time after this, I asked gequinn
if I could help him with anything related to his work
on his decompiler. He asked me to find out how the
second segment objects was accessed. I found out how
and wrote a mission objects editor that could move
mission script objects like doors and gates.

When the mission script was near completely decoded,
lots of mission script compilers and decompilers was
written. No compilers could recompiled the entire
mission script at this time. Later, complete mission
editors was written.

As far as I know, Dans mission editor and my mission
builder are the only two fully functional mission
script editor available to the public right now. I wrote
the mission builder because I wanted a mission editor
that was based on gequinn's first decompiler. My mission
builders are totally based on gequinn's 'scm.ini' file.

For the legal stuff, the gta 3 license says something
like the owner of the game can modify any files in the
game except for the 'gta3.exe' file and other
executable files. The gta 3 mission script file can't
run on its own in any operating system, so I guess the
mission script file in not an executable file. The 
license also says that if a file is modified, it still
belongs to Rockstar and no modified file or 3rd party
tools developed to modify any of these files can be sold
for profit. Because if this, my mission builders will
always be free and I will never make any money on the
mission script files it can compile. The mission builder
is, as far as I know, not illegal in any way.

I take no responsibility for others use of the mission
builder in any way. Use it at your own risk.
